== Description & Goals==

The ShowNTell Activity is based on the ClassroomPresenterhttp://xo.orderedpixels.com/ activity implemented for Sugar by Brian Mayton and
Kristofer Plunkett at the University of Washington. It adds the capability to create a presentation directly on the XO. It also adds the capability
to record an audio narration about each slide in the presentation. ShowNtell allows a presenter via collaboration to show the presentation to a few friends
or to the whole class. Those viewing the presentation can submit comments by drawing on the slide, entering text, or recording an audio clip. The presenter,
e.g. a teacher, can view the submissions and can choose to share them with the other viewers.

The presentation consists of one or more images with the addition of ink (drawing on the image), an audio clip narrating the slide, and/or a text entry.
An image may be .jpg, .png, or .svg. A special form of presentation is the 'step-by-step' in which the images are screenshots (.png). A step-by-step can
show how an activity may be used along with an audio explanation. In the next version of ShowNTell, step-by-steps will be provided to show how the
ShowNTell activity itself may be used.

The user can create a new presentation (Presentation tab on the toolbar). On the toolbar, the user gives the presentation a name which will be shown
in the journal entry. In addtion, the user can give a title to each slide. From the toolbar, the user selects images in the journal or a usb drive to add as
slides to the presentation. The user can change the order of the slides or remove slides which are needed. Audio controls are provided to allow the user to record and
playback an audio narration of the slide. The narration can be corrected or translated by recording it again. The user can draw on the images to emphasize
features. A text caption can also be added.

The ShowNTell activity can be used by students to share an experience, for example images from a trip or of local plants and animals. It can also be used by
teachers to present a lesson. The teacher can have the students submit comments showing their understanding of the lesson. For example, a teacher could have
a slide presenting a problem in addition. The students could be asked to solve the problem by drawing on the image and commenting verbally on how they solved it.
The teacher could immediately see who has understood the process and who is having trouble.

In a future version, it should be possible for the lesson to be done as homework. The teacher shares the presentation with the students. The students go through the presentation submitting responses 'offline'. The next day,
the students relink with the teacher to submit their responses. Presently, the teacher can upload the presentation to the schoolserver. The students can
download it to their journal using Browse. However, in this mode there is no easy way for the teacher to see the student's responses.

== Creating Presentations ==

Include here a screenshot of the Presentation toolbar tab.

The first icon (representing a blank overhead transparency) replaces the current presentation with a new presentation. A new presentation has the
title 'New' and contains a single slide showing the presentation title and the current date and time. It is really redundant, since the same effect is
achieved by starting the ShowNTell activity from the Home view.

The second icon (representing a overhead transparency with content) shows a list of all presentations currently available in the Journal. The user selects
a presentation by clicking on it's title. The selected presentation is loaded replacing the current one.

The Journal icon shows a list of all images available in the Journal. Clicking on a list entry adds that image to the presentation.

If a USB drive is mounted, the pendrive icon shows a list of all images available on that drive. Note: if more than one removable drive is mounted,
only one will be shown. In a future version, it should be possible to see multiple drives with a tooltip identifying which is which. Clicking on an
entry will add that image to the presentation.

The first text entry is the title of the presentation. For a new presentation, the user should enter a title. This title will be shown in the Journal.
Note: the entry occurs on 'enter' (carriage return). The first (title) slide will be changed to show the presentation title and date of creation.

The second text entry is the title of the current slide (shown in the main panel).

The sidebar shows thumbnails of all of the slides. Click on a thumbnail, and that slide becomes the current slide. A right-click on a thumbnail, shows
a context menu giving the option to remove the slide or to move it. If the 'move' option is chosen (left-click), then a left click on another thumbnail
moves the slide in front of that one. To move a slide to the last position, move it in front of the last slide and then move the last slide in front
of it.

The user can draw on the current slide (except the title slide) using 'ink'. The ink tab allows a choice of three colors, erasing the ink, and changing
from pencil to brush. The user can also enter a caption for the slide using the text entry below the main panel.

The audio controls on the bottom left allow recording narration relating to the current slide. The controls are toggles. Click on record and
speak clearly into the microphone. Click on record again when finished! The process is complete when the record button returns to normal. This
will take some time because the clip must be compressed in ogg format. When recording is complete (button returns to normal), click on play to
hear the recording. Click on play again to stop (or, it will stop automatically when the clip has been played). If the clip is not satisfactory,
record again. The new recording will replace the first one.

A presentation can be easily converted to a second language by a bilingual speaker who records over the source language in the target language. Of
course, it would be prudent to save a copy of the original. A simple way to do this is to select the source presentation and change it's title (e.g. to
the target language). This version will be saved to the journal independently of the original.

=== Packaging The Image Files ===

The presentation is stored in the datastore with the presentation title saved as the metadata 'title'. The file has the mime_type
application/x-classroompresenter. It is a zip file consisting of deck.xml plus the images (.jpg, .png, or .svg) and the audio clips (.ogg).
The thumbnails appear as 'slide1_thumb.png', etc. The presentation can be saved by copying from the Journal to a usb drive.

== Current Features ==

* Currently you can load a zip file containing images and page through them in sequence like a book.  The images will be resized to best fit in the current screen resolution without scrolling.  If you change the screen orientation the image will be resized to fit the new orientation.
* You can share documents with other users, using code adapted from the core Read activity.  For best results keep the size of your slides down by "mogrifying" them as described above.  There is a text message on the "Read" toolbar showing how many bytes have been downloaded out of how many total.  I plan to replace this message with a progress bar eventually.
* Aggresive power management using code from Read activity.
* You can hide the mouse pointer (or make it visible again) by pressing the "square" button to the lower right of the XO screen (or numeric keypad "Home" on any other computer).  This removes a source of distraction when viewing images.
* New with version 7 you can zoom the image to fit the width of the screen and scroll it vertically.  This is handy for reading scanned in books with smaller print.  Also new with version 7 you can hide and show the toolbar by pressing Alt-Enter on the keyboard, giving you the ability to view your slides using the full screen.

== Planned Features ==

* With the name "View Slides" it would be reasonable to expect a slideshow feature, possibly with fancy transitions.  I may add another tab to the toolbar to provide this.
* I might add an annotation feature that lets you attach notes to a slide.  I'm still thinking about how this would work visually, as well as how I could do it with pygtk.
* I might add a feature to allow multiple bookmarks in a slide collection.  This would be in addition to remembering where you left off when viewing the slides.
* Any annotations and bookmarks would be stored in an XML file which would go in the Zip file along with the images.  When you share a slide collection these annotations and bookmarks would go with the collection to the recipient.

== Bugs/Issues ==

* This is a first release and needs extensive testing to determine how the UI works, how it can be made more intuitive and effective, what additional
capabilities are needed, and to find errors in the implementation.

* The collaboration capability needs to be tested.

* The audio clip may not be transmitted to laptops sharing the presentation.

* Many steps take a long time to complete. In some cases, this may be unavoidable and some sort of progress alert will be needed.

* The presentation title in the presentation toolbar tab may show 'New' instead of the title shown in the Journal.

== Source ==

http://git.sugarlabs.org/projects/showntell

[[Category:Activities]]
